add Streams 9.2 updates (#3357)
elastic/docs-content: solutions/observability/streams/management/extract.md

---
applies_to:
  serverless: ga
  stack: preview 9.1, ga 9.2
---
# Extract fields [streams-extract-fields]

> Use the **Processing** tab to add [processors](#streams-extract-processors) that extract meaningful fields from your log messages. These fields let you filter and analyze your data more effectively.

Reviewer: Recommend specifying where users can access the **Processing** tab.

For example, in [Discover](../../../../explore-analyze/discover.md), extracted fields might let you filter for log messages with an `ERROR` log level that occurred during a specific time period to help diagnose an issue. Without extracting the log level and timestamp fields from your messages, those filters wouldn't return meaningful results.

> The processing tab also:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Processing** tab also:
```

- Simulates your processors and provides an immediate [preview](#streams-preview-changes) that's tested end to end.
- Flags indexing issues, like [mapping conflicts](#streams-processing-mapping-conflicts), so you can address them before applying changes.

> After creating your processor, all future data ingested ingested into the stream will be parsed into structured fields accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After creating your processor, all future data ingested into the stream is parsed into structured fields accordingly.
```

:::{note}
Applied changes aren't retroactive and only affect *future ingested data*.
:::

## Supported processors [streams-extract-processors]

Streams supports the following processors:

- [Date](./extract/date.md): Converts date strings into timestamps, with options for timezone, locale, and output formatting.
- [Dissect](./extract/dissect.md): Extracts fields from structured log messages using defined delimiters instead of patterns, making it faster than Grok and ideal for consistently formatted logs.
- [Grok](./extract/grok.md): Extracts fields from unstructured log messages using predefined or custom patterns, supports multiple match attempts in sequence, and can automatically generate patterns with an LLM connector.
- [Set](./extract/set.md): Assigns a specific value to a field, creating the field if it doesn’t exist or overwriting its value if it does.
- [Rename](./extract/rename.md): Changes the name of a field, moving its value to a new field name and removing the original.

> - [Append](./extract/append.md): Adds a value to an existing array field, or creates the field as an array if it doesn’t exist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [**Append**](./extract/append.md): Adds a value to an existing array field, or creates the field as an array if it doesn’t exist.
```

## Add a processor [streams-add-processors]

Streams uses [{{es}} ingest pipelines](../../../../manage-data/ingest/transform-enrich/ingest-pipelines.md) made up of processors to transform your data, without requiring you to switch interfaces and manually update pipelines.

To add a processor from the **Processing** tab:

1. Select **Create** → **Create processor** to open a list of supported processors.
1. Select a processor from the **Processor** menu.
1. Configure the processor and select **Create** to save the processor.

> After adding all desired processors and conditions, make sure to **Save changes**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After adding all desired processors and conditions, select **Save changes**.
```

Refer to individual [supported processors](#streams-extract-processors) for more on configuring specific processors.

:::{note}
Editing processors with JSON is planned for a future release, and additional processors may be supported over time.
:::

### Add conditions to processors [streams-add-processor-conditions]

> You can add conditions to processors so they only run on data that meets those conditions. Each condition is a boolean expression evaluated for every document.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can add conditions to processors so they only run on data that meets those conditions. Each condition is a boolean expression evaluated for every document.
```
Should Boolean be capitalized?

- ends with
- exists
- not exists
:::

### Preview changes [streams-preview-changes]

After you create processors, the **Data preview** tab simulates processor results with additional filtering options depending on the outcome of the simulation.

When you add or edit processors, the **Data preview** updates automatically.

:::{note}
To avoid unexpected results, it's best to add processors rather than remove or reorder existing ones.
:::

**Data preview** loads 100 documents from your existing data and runs your changes against them.
For any newly created processors and conditions, the preview results are reliable, and you can freely create and reorder during the preview.

> Select **Save changes** to apply your changes to the data stream.

Reviewer: This sentence almost feels out of place since this section explains how the data preview works.

If you edit the stream after saving your changes, keep the following in mind:

- Adding processors to the end of the list will work as expected.

> - Editing or reordering existing processors can cause inaccurate results. Because the pipeline may have already processed the documents used for sampling, **Data preview** cannot accurately simulate changes to existing data.

Author: Data preview is a tab in the processing table. I've updated to reference this.

> - Adding a new processor and moving it before an existing processor may cause inaccurate results. **Data preview** only simulates the new processor, not the existing ones, so the simulation may not accurately reflect changes to existing data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Adding a new processor and moving it before an existing processor may cause inaccurate results. The data preview only simulates the new processor, not the existing ones, so the simulation may not accurately reflect changes to existing data.
```

Failures are displayed at the bottom of the process editor:

![Screenshot showing failure notifications](<../../../images/logs-streams-processor-failures.png>)

Some failures may require fixes, while others simply serve as a warning.

### Mapping conflicts [streams-processing-mapping-conflicts]

As part of processing, Streams simulates your changes end to end to check for mapping conflicts. If a conflict is detected, Streams marks the processor as failed and displays a message like the following:

![Screenshot showing mapping conflict notifications](<../../../images/logs-streams-mapping-conflicts.png>)

Use the information in the failure message to find and troubleshoot the mapping issues.

## Processor statistics and detected fields [streams-stats-and-detected-fields]

Once saved, the processor displays its success rate and the fields it added.

![Screenshot showing field stats](<../../../images/logs-streams-field-stats.png>)

## Advanced: How and where do these changes get applied to the underlying data stream? [streams-applied-changes]

% make sure this is all still accurate.

> When you save processors, Streams modifies the best-matching ingest pipeline for the data stream. In short, it either chooses the best-matching pipeline ending in `@custom` in your data stream, or it adds one for you.

Reviewer 3: instead of "modifies" maybe we can say "appends processing to"
